Hello everyone, good morning from Musicopolix Alcorcón.
We speak to you from the workshop of luthería and we want to explain to you today one of the problems
more typical that we can find on a guitar and it is precisely when it is curved
the mast, what is going on?
We separate the action of the strings, making it a bit more uncomfortable to touch,
How can we see it?
There is a way to see what would be the following: a rule enough
long as the guitar fretboard placing it from the first fret to the last and
simply with a folio we realize that the sheet passes through the ruler,
only where he will not be able to do it is on the first and last frets; this
It is a very typical problem and what we are going to try to do is rectify the mast.
Well we are going to try to solve the problem, very important to rectify the mast
if it is necessary that we have all the strings on and that the guitar has it
tuned because right now it is holding the correct tension generated by the game of
strings we have.
In the sense of clockwise, is where we are going to be able to give tension
to the mast, that is, bring this little tension that will always require us
very progressive and little by little, while on the side we can see how the mast
it is rectifying and it is taking that rectitude that we need.
Sometimes it costs more to put the key than what comes to be the game that asks us, okay,
little by little it is taking the form we need, we almost have it!
Okay, if we can go appreciating the mast has returned to take a different curvature
we always have to before we finish the work to check again what before
It was the leaf that passed, now if we realize there are areas in which it passes and areas in
which already the blade as you can see offers resistance, this means that the mast
is reacting as we want.
Well, why does this type of fault occur on our guitar?
It includes a lot especially when we have changed a string gauge superior to that we had,
since the guitar is supporting a very different tension and the mast is the one that suffers it;
you can go through this, you can go through the weather interference, which suddenly comes a season
very hot or very cold and do not forget that wood has no life?
Wood is always going to put pressure on what the guitar is together with the pressure
of the ropes.
If now we look at how our work could have been left now, the sheet no longer passes through
none of the frets; Now we can say that the neck of our guitar is totally
straight.
What should we do as a last detail?
Re-tune our guitar because with this adjustment some string could be modified
and simply if you tune our guitar we will have it ready.
See you later, see you in the next video.